gff format:

seqname - The name of the sequence. Must be a chromosome or scaffold.
source - The program that generated this feature.
feature - The name of this type of feature. Some examples of standard feature types are "CDS", "start_codon", "stop_codon", and "exon".
start - The starting position of the feature in the sequence. The first base is numbered 1.
end - The ending position of the feature (inclusive).
score - A score between 0 and 1000. If the track line useScore attribute is set to 1 for this annotation data set, the score value will determine the level of gray in which this feature is displayed (higher numbers = darker gray). If there is no score value, enter ".".
strand - Valid entries include '+', '-', or '.' (for don't know/don't care).
frame - If the feature is a coding exon, frame should be a number between 0-2 that represents the reading frame of the first base. If the feature is not a coding exon, the value should be '.'.
group - All lines with the same group are linked together into a single item. 

frid - The feature accession id if exists or "."
frrank - feature rank

gtf format:
GTF (Gene Transfer Format) is a refinement to GFF that tightens the specification. The first eight GTF fields are the same as GFF. The group field has been expanded into a list of attributes. Each attribute consists of a type/value pair. Attributes must end in a semi-colon, and be separated from any following attribute by exactly one space.

The attribute list must begin with the two mandatory attributes:

    gene_id value - A globally unique identifier for the genomic source of the sequence.
    transcript_id value - A globally unique identifier for the predicted transcript. 

I could add protein ID,

Feature could be :
exon
CDS
intron
repeats
ESTS

proteinDomains
miRNAs

sequence (dna_sequence,rna_sequence,protein_sequence)

Hi Joel,

I'm working on the gtf format .
GTF (Gene Transfer Format) is a feature base format, a standard way to display all the features on a given gene transcript.
The first eight GTF fields are the same as GFF. The group field has been expanded
into a list of attributes with two mandatory attributes gene_id, and transcript_id.
Some examples of standard feature types are "CDS", "start_codon", "stop_codon", and "exon".
Where CDS is for coding exon coordinates.

my question is:
In our data we have features other than the above standard feature types. For example we have:
repeats, ESTs  coordinates associated with every organism version (at least for Mouse and Human) - intron coordinates can be computed.
We also have proteinDomains, and miRNAs data for most of the  organisms we currently have in the database.
The question is should I generate just the generic gtf file with only standard feature types or should I add more?
What would you like our gtf file to include?




